---
title: On the Testing Train With Jasmine
author: andrew
date: 2013-08-26
template: article.jade
---

Choo Choo! I finally got Jasmine set up and testing my little jQuery app. It
took a little tinkering and some help from a new friend at a Meetup, but I
finally have my first test passing! There were mixups involving the functions
I was testing being scoped inside of the (document).ready function as well as
an error of parentheses that broke my test when I tried to write it in
CoffeeScript, but it's all working well now and I couldn't be happier.

Now I dont' have to hang my head in shame each time I push my repo to GitHub,
knowing that there are no tests written. Now that I understand the
implementation, I plan on using TDD on all the JavaScript I write, going
forward.

The other bit of news is that I may have caught Vim fever. After watching a
more experienced coder than I (that's you, [Russell](http://russmatney.com/))
work in Vim, I felt a profound sense of nerd shame and decided to give it a try. Of course, giving
Vim a try leads to learning what Vim can do, which may lead to switching to
Vim.

I've spent the better part of a day learning Vim commands and installing
plugins (for some reason, it took me a while to understand how to get pathogen
to load all of the plugins, but I got it working) and I'm now starting to get
used to maneuvering in my highly modified copy of Vim. The biggest convenience
of all has been remapping "switch to command mode" to "jj" (my pinky really
doesn't like to travel that far).

I'm still extremely awkward with it, like a newborn deer taking his or her
first steps, but I can tell that once these commands are second nature, I'm
going to be flying.

For me, it's not *just* the speed though. I feel like this is a more analytical
way of interacting with the text editor. So always thinking about the most
efficient way to traverse and edit a document helps you stay in the right frame
of mind when thinking about the most efficient algorithm. The logic of the
command mode (in particular) reinforces the logical world of code. It just kind
of makes sense that programmers love this editor so much and I'm really looking
forward to becoming more comfortable with it. (my pinky really doesn't like to
travel that far).

I'm still extremely awkward with it, like a newborn deer taking his or her
first steps, but I can tell that once these commands are second nature, I'm
going to be flying.

For me, it's not *just* the speed though. I feel like this is a more analytical
way of interacting with the text editor, so always thinking about the most
efficient way to traverse and edit a document helps you stay in the right frame
of mind when thinking about the most efficient algorithm. The logic of the
command mode (in particular) reinforces the logical world of code. It just kind
of makes sense that programmers love this editor so much and I'm really looking
forward to becoming more comfortable with it.